The hello world program is intended to be used for public bulletin boards that use a standard board for running the display finctionality.
standard boards as an example raspberry py, arduino
The message that is entered in the program will apear on the display as an overlay on top of other running advertisements.
For this application the applicable usecase is a Retail Use case, assumption is that a number of displays can recieve messages.
the Messages are submitted by the "store manager" using a dedicated app on his phone or web interface on his computer.
The message protocoll used is MQTT, the message has a maximum lenght of 255 characters.
workflow:
prerequesite: A gateway in the shop maintains a MQTT message que and a display address registry.
prerequesite: The gateway has a message website to input a message.
prerequesite: Each display with a message function has its own address. 
prerequesite: a dedicated app is present on the manager phone.
prerequesite: the App and the Website can query the gateway for the display adresses.
prerequesite: The address of a display and its location are known to the store manager
prerequesite: both the app as the website require a login by the store manager
prerequesite: it is possible to apoint a priority to a message.
prerequesite: each message can have a display time set to it, the default is 10 minutes
Given the use of the website:
The Manager logs in to the message website and select one, multiple or all displays for his message.
The Manager type in his message and assignes priority 1 to the message
After the manager clicks the ok button the message is checked for offensive wording.
If no offensive wording is present the message will be added to the MQTT message que of the gateway.
The Gateway checks the MQTT que regulary if there is a prio 1 message waiting, this message will be send imediately to the appropriate displays.
Security considerations:
login authentication
gateway access control
display firmware updates
remote access or not?
(conduct stride for this scenario)
